docs: guide for multi stage delivery (#3080)
keptn/lifecycle-toolkit: docs/docs/guides/multi-stage-application-delivery.md

---
comments: true
---

# Multi-stage Application Delivery

In this guide you will learn how to deploy
an application across multiple stages while getting
full observability of each of your workload deployments.
This is shown based on an example where we deploy
an application into two environments (`dev` and `production`),
using [Argo CD](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/).

The promotion from `dev` to `production` is implemented using
`promotionTasks` that can be executed after a successful
application deployment.
In this example, the promotion task creates a pull request
to deploy the same workload version that has been deployed in the
`dev` stage into the `production` stage.

> Using the observability capabilities of Keptn,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the
[observability](otel)
capabilities of Keptn,
```

we also add contextual metadata to each deployment,
such as the commit ID which triggered the deployment of a new
version.
This metadata is added to the OpenTelemetry traces
representing the deployment of an application version
in a particular stage.
Also, deployment traces for the `production` stage will
contain references to the deployments of the `dev` stage,
giving you full traceability of a workload version
across different stages.

## Before you begin

> This guide assumes the following:

Reviewer: I would like this list to be imperative with a parallel structure for all items (Install Keptn, Install ArgoCD, Set up observability, etc.) but I see that the remaining items don't work so well for an imperative list -- you need the repo but may already have it.  Maybe you could break the list up into two lists -- "Do the following:" and "You also need:"?  Or leave it as it is.

> - Installed Keptn with the

Reviewer: Link to ../installation/index.md

[promotionTasksEnabled flag](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit/blob/main/lifecycle-operator/chart/README.md#global)
set to `true`.
- Installed [Argo CD](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)
- Followed the [instructions for setting up observability](./otel.md#requirements-for-opentelemetry)
- Access to a GitHub repository for hosting your application manifests.
- A Personal Access token for your GitHub repository.
We recommend using a [fine-grained token](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/managing-your-personal-access-tokens#fine-grained-personal-access-tokens)
with the following permissions for the repository:
    - Read access to metadata
    - Read/Write access to actions

> Note that for the promotion to work properly,

Reviewer: This really should be part of the list but I think you put it outside the list so you can have the full page width for the screenshot, which may be more important than absolutely perfect structure.

you need to enable read and write permissions for
Github actions in your repository - see the screenshot below:

![Workflow Permissions](./assets/multi-stage-delivery/workflow-permissions.png)

## Preparing the Application Manifests

> In this example, the application will be deployed in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, the application is deployed into
```

two different namespaces, each representing a different
stage (`dev` and `production`).

> To create the namespaces, execute the following commands:

Reviewer: Should this be a numbered list using the imperative for each item?  If so, this would be the first item, "Create the namespaces by executing the following commands:"

This would get rid of all the "Next" items later on.

```shell
kubectl create namespace podtato-head-dev
kubectl annotate namespace podtato-head-dev keptn.sh/lifecycle-toolkit=enabled
kubectl create namespace podtato-head-production
kubectl annotate namespace podtato-head-production keptn.sh/lifecycle-toolkit=enabled
```

The promotion task that triggers the action to
create a pull request for promoting an application version

> from `dev` to `production` will be executed in the `podtato-head-dev` stage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from `dev` to `production` is executed in the `podtato-head-dev` stage.
```

```shell
GH_REPO_OWNER=<YOUR_GITHUB_USER>
GH_REPO=<YOUR_GITHUB_REPO>
GH_API_TOKEN=<YOUR_GITHUB_TOKEN>
kubectl create secret generic github-token -n podtato-head-dev --from-literal=SECURE_DATA="{\"githubRepo\":\"${GH_REPO}\",\"githubRepoOwner\":\"${GH_REPO_OWNER}\",\"apiToken\":\"${GH_API_TOKEN}\"}"
```

Next, add the promotion task as a GitHub action by
committing the following file to the repository:

```yaml title=".github/workflows/promote.yaml"
{% include "./assets/multi-stage-delivery/promote.yaml" %}
```

Next, add the application manifests to the GitOps repository.
Note that in this example, the manifests for the `dev` and `production`
stage are located in two different subdirectories within
the repository to keep it simple.
This might differ heavily depending on how your organization's
GitOps repositories and application stages are organized.

Inside your Git repository, create the following files
containing the manifests for the `dev` and `production` stage:

**Dev Stage:**

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD046 -->

=== "dev/templates/application.yaml"
  
    This file contains the manifests for the application in the `dev` stage,

>     including the Kubernetes `Deployment`/`Service` definition,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    which includes:
    - The Kubernetes `Deployment`/`Service` definition
```

>     as well as the `KeptnAppContext` that is used to define tasks
>     for the post-deployment and promotion phases, as well as the related
>     `KeptnTaskDefinitions`.
>     In addition to defining tasks, the `KeptnAppContext` also contains
>     a `metadata` section that includes properties that should be added
>     to the OpenTelemetry spans that are generated during the deployment of
>     the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    -The
    [KeptnAppContext](../reference/crd-reference/appcontext)
    resource that defines tasks
    for the post-deployment and promotion phases.
     It also contains
    a `metadata` section that defines properties that should be added
    to the OpenTelemetry spans that are generated during the deployment of
    the application.
    - The related
    [KeptnTaskDefinition](../reference/crd-reference/taskdefinition.md)
    resource.
```

    ```yaml
    {% include "./assets/multi-stage-delivery/application-dev.yaml" %}
    ```

=== "dev/Chart.yaml"

>     The `Chart.yaml` that is required by helm:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The `Chart.yaml` that is required by Helm:
```

    ```yaml
    {% include "./assets/multi-stage-delivery/chart.yaml" %}
    ```

=== "dev/values.yaml"

    The `values.yaml` file contains configurable properties

>     for the application, such as the version of the service that should be deployed,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    for the application, such as the version of the service that should be deployed
```

    and other metadata that is passed to the `KeptnAppContext`, such as the Git

>     commit ID that caused the deployment of a new version (this value for the

Reviewer 2: the `)` is missing here

>     commit ID that caused the deployment of a new version (this value for the
>     `commitID` property is set automatically using the `$ARGOCD_APP_REVISION`
>     environment variable provided by Argo CD).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    commit ID that caused the deployment of a new version.
    Tthis value for the
    `commitID` property is set automatically using the `$ARGOCD_APP_REVISION`
    environment variable provided by Argo CD.
```

>     During the promotion phase of a new deployment, a pull request to
>     copy the content of this file to the helm chart containing the helm chart for
>     the `production` stage will be created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    
    During the promotion phase of a new deployment, a pull request to
    copy the content of this file to the helm chart containing the helm chart for
    the `production` stage is created.
```

    Therefore, after merging the pull request, the version that has been deployed into

>     `dev` and has passed all checks there, will then be deployed into `production`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    `dev` and has passed all checks there is then be deployed into `production`.
```

    ```yaml
    {% include "./assets/multi-stage-delivery/values-dev.yaml" %}
    ```

>     1. The commitID will be automatically set by Argo CD

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. The commitID is automatically set by Argo CD
```

**Production Stage:**

=== "production/templates/application.yaml"

    This file contains the manifests for the application in the `dev` stage,
    including the Kubernetes `Deployment`/`Service` definition,
    as well as the `KeptnAppContext` that contains
    a `metadata` section which includes properties that should be added
    to the OpenTelemetry spans that are generated during the deployment of
    the application.

    ```yaml
    {% include "./assets/multi-stage-delivery/application-production.yaml" %}
    ```

=== "production/Chart.yaml"

    The `Chart.yaml` that is required by helm:

    ```yaml
    {% include "./assets/multi-stage-delivery/chart.yaml" %}
    ```

=== "production/values.yaml"

    The `values.yaml` file contains configurable properties
    for the application, such as the version of the service that should be deployed,
    and other metadata that is passed to the `KeptnAppContext`, such as the Git

>     commit ID that caused the deployment of a new version (this value for the

Reviewer 2: the `)` is missing here

    `commitID` property is set automatically using the `$ARGOCD_APP_REVISION`
    environment variable provided by Argo CD).
    The content of this file is modified by the pull requests created in the
    promotion phase of the deployment in `dev` in order to promote a new
    service version into `production`.

    ```yaml
    {% include "./assets/multi-stage-delivery/values-production.yaml" %}
    ```

    1. The commitID will be automatically set by Argo CD
    2.  The traceParent will be automatically set by the GitHub action triggered by the promotion task

<!-- markdownlint-enable MD046 -->

> After creating all the files listed above, do not forget to push

Reviewer 3: this bit is difficult to understand if it is part of the tab or not in the website view, I would suggest adding a subtitle

Reviewer 3: ![image](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit/assets/89971034/c609293e-2375-45e7-a1a7-2e791a998656)
<img width="690" alt="image" src="https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit/assets/89971034/c1dc33e8-cfe8-40ff-9dc0-fb07ab51d3ab">
